Thus far, we saw that we register mixins in the components where we want to use them, with the mixins array
here,
of course you could add multiple mixins,
that is also important to know.
Now let's say you got one mixin you want to use on every single instance in your app
and this is really important to understand, a global mixin is added to every instance and thus every component
too in your application,
hence you rarely want to use that,
most of the time, that is what the official vuejs docs recommend.
You want to use this if you create third party plugins for vuejs
and not in your production application.
Nonetheless to show you how it would work,
you can register a global mixin by typing vue mixin,
now that will allow you to configure some code which is mixed into every single instance.
Therefore we here pass the object which is our mixin and let's say I again add something to the created
hook,
so now again I manage or I adjust my created hook here in a mixin, now in the global mixin. Here I
want to say global mixin created hook so that we can see where this is coming from.
If I now save this, I don't need to add it to any array because again, it is already added to all instances,
if I clear this and reload, we see that the global mixin gets executed here, then we have created,
then the global mixin again and then created in inside list created hook.
Now why do we have global mixin three times when we only have the app.vue file and the list.vue
file here?
Well because we also have the main.js file and
here we have a new vue instance too,
so we get the created hook executed in the new vue instance, that is this first call, then let's have a look.
We get the render function where we render the app file,
so this is the second time we call the created hook,
then we call created because the app.vue file also has the fruit mixin which adds the created
hook here and then we reach the third time that we call the global mixin created hook because
now we also add the list component,
this is the last thing we add in our application and there, we have the fruit mixin added, which is called
first then the local created method here which says inside list created hook, this is last and then we're
done.
So this is this lifecycle, global mixin called first, then mixins added with the mixins array called next
and then code directly written into the instance is handled lastly so that it always has the
last word as described before.
This is how you can add such a global mixin, again used this with caution,
it really affects everything.
This is why you typically use it for developing plugins where you don't really have a complete app
with many many components and instances but a contained piece of business logic which you then ship
to other apps where your global mixin is contained to your business logic.
But to be aware of how to use it, this is how you would use it,
typically though, you use a local mixin with the mixins array and then the import where the mixin is
outsourced in a separate file for example.